---------------------------------------------------------------------
Intel(R) Machine Learning Scaling Library 2017 Update 2 for Linux* OS
Release Notes
---------------------------------------------------------------------

--------
Contents
--------

- Overview
- What's New
- Key Features
- System Requirements
- Installation Notes
- Documentation
- Special Features and Known Issues
- Copyright and Licenses
- Disclaimer and Legal Information

--------
Overview
--------

Intel(R) Machine Learning Scaling Library (Intel(R) MLSL) is a library providing
an efficient implementation of communication patterns used in deep learning.

    - Built on top of MPI, allows for use of other communication libraries
    - Optimized to drive scalability of communication patterns
    - Works across various interconnects: Intel(R) Omni-Path Architecture,
      InfiniBand*, and Ethernet
    - Common API to support Deep Learning frameworks (Caffe*, Theano*, Torch*,
      etc.)

Intel(R) MLSL package comprises the Intel MLSL Software Development Kit (SDK)
and the Intel(R) MPI Library Runtime components.

----------
What's New
----------

Intel MLSL 2017 Update 2:
   - Support for fine-grained tuning of internal launch mechanism
     (see MLSL_SERVER_CREATION_TYPE, MLSL_HOSTNAME_TYPE, MLSL_HOSTNAME).
   - Improved stability.
   - Support for parameter quantization (see a sample file in the package for reference).
   - Intel(R) MPI Library runtime updated to version 2018 Update 1.

Intel MLSL 2017 Update 1:
   - Added Python bindings.
   - Bug fixes.

Intel MLSL 2017
   - Initial release.

Product Contents
----------------
The Intel(R) Machine Learning Scaling Library contains the tools you need
to run programs including scalable process management system (Hydra),
configuration files, shared (.so) libraries, and documentation.

Related Products and Services
-----------------------------
Information on Intel(R) Software Development Products is available at
http://www.intel.com/software/products.

------------
Key Features
------------

This release of the Intel(R) Machine Learning Scaling Library supports the 
following major features:
- Data, model, and hybrid parallelism
- Synchronous Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) and its variants (AdaGrad, Momentum, etc.)
  support by communication patterns
- Distributed weight update
- Advanced communication statistics
- C/C++ and Python interfaces
- Support for Intel(R) Xeon(R) and Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) processors
  (formerly code named Knights Landing)
- Support for the following network interconnects:
      o Intel(R) Omni-Path Architecture (Intel(R) OPA)
      o Infiniband*
      o Ethernet*

-------------------
System Requirements
-------------------

The following sections describe supported hardware and software.

Supported Hardware
------------------
    Systems based on the Intel(R) 64 architecture, in particular:
      Intel(R) Core(TM) processor family or higher
      Intel(R) Xeon(R) E5 v3 processor families recommended
      Intel(R) Xeon(R) E7 v2 processor families recommended
      2nd Generation Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) Processor (formerly code named Knights Landing)
      1 GB of RAM per core
      2 GB of RAM per core recommended
      1 GB of free hard disk space

Supported Software
------------------
Operating Systems: (issues including installation ones are possible for operating
systems that are not released at the date of the current Intel MLSL release)

    Systems based on the Intel(R) 64 architecture:
      Red Hat* Enterprise Linux* 6, 7
      SUSE* Linux Enterprise Server* 12
      Ubuntu* 16

    Compilers:
      GNU*: C, C++ 4.4.0 or higher
      Intel(R) C++ Compiler for Linux* OS 16.0 through 17.0 or higher

    Virtual Environments:
      Docker*
      KVM*

    Python* Interpreters:
      Python 2.x

------------------
Installation Notes
------------------

See the Intel(R) MLSL for Linux* OS README for details.

-------------
Documentation
-------------

Intel(R) MLSL for Linux* OS Developer Guide, found in
Developer_Guide.pdf, contains information on the following subjects:

     - Using Intel MLSL
     - Environment Variables

Intel(R) MLSL C++ API reference found in API_Reference.htm (the main page for API documentation).

---------------------------------
Special Features and Known Issues
---------------------------------

     - Only Intel(R) MPI Library is supported.

     - Intel(R) MLSL API is not stabilized and will be changed in future
       releases. You are recommended to use the GetVersion() function to verify
       the API version.

----------------------
Copyright and Licenses
----------------------

dlmalloc
---------
CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE LEGAL
SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN ATTORNEY-CLIENT
RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS.
CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE
INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED
HEREUNDER.

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator and
subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of authorship
and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for the
purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and scientific works
("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear of later claims of
infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other works, reuse and
redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever and for any purposes,
including without limitation commercial purposes. These owners may contribute to
the Commons to promote the ideal of a free culture and the further production of
creative, cultural and scientific works, or to gain reputation or greater
distribution for their Work in part through the use and efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any expectation of
additional consideration or compensation, the person associating CC0 with a Work
(the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she is an owner of Copyright and
Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily elects to apply CC0 to the Work and
publicly distribute the Work under its terms, with knowledge of his or her
Copyright and Related Rights in the Work and the meaning and intended legal
effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A Work made available under CC0 may be
   protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and
   Related Rights"). Copyright and Related Rights include, but are not limited
   to, the following:
    i.   the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display, communicate,
         and translate a Work;
    ii.  moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or performer(s);
    iii. publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image or likeness
         depicted in a Work;
    iv.  rights protecting against unfair competition in regards to a Work,
         subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below;
    v.   rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data
         in a Work;
    vi.  database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the
         European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal
         protection of databases, and under any national implementation thereof,
         including any amended or successor version of such directive); and
    vii. other similar, equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the world
         based on applicable law or treaty, and any national implementations
         thereof.

2. Waiver. To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention of,
   applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently, irrevocably and
   unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of Affirmer's Copyright
   and Related Rights and associated claims and causes of action, whether now
   known or unknown (including existing as well as future claims and causes of
   action), in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum
   duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time
   extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number of
   copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without limitation
   commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the "Waiver"). Affirmer makes
   the Waiver for the benefit of each member of the public at large and to the
   detriment of Affirmer's heirs and successors, fully intending that such Waiver
   shall not be subject to revocation, rescission, cancellation, termination, or
   any other legal or equitable action to disrupt the quiet enjoyment of the Work
   by the public as contemplated by Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

3. Public License Fallback. Should any part of the Waiver for any reason be
   judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, then the Waiver
   shall be preserved to the maximum extent permitted taking into account
   Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose. In addition, to the extent the Waiver
   is so judged Affirmer hereby grants to each affected person a royalty-free,
   non transferable, non sublicensable, non exclusive, irrevocable and
   unconditional license to exercise Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights in
   the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration
   provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time extensions), (iii)
   in any current or future medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any
   purpose whatsoever, including without limitation commercial, advertising or
   promotional purposes (the "License"). The License shall be deemed effective as
   of the date CC0 was applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of the
   License for any reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under
   applicable law, such partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not
   invalidate the remainder of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby
   affirms that he or she will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining
   Copyright and Related Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated claims
   and causes of action with respect to the Work, in either case contrary to
   Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.
    a. No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned,
       surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.
    b. Affirmer offers the Work as-is and makes no representations or warranties
       of any kind concerning the Work, express, implied, statutory or otherwise,
       including without limitation warranties of title, merchantability, fitness
       for a particular purpose, non infringement, or the absence of latent or
       other defects, accuracy, or the present or absence of errors, whether or
       not discoverable, all to the greatest extent permissible under applicable
       law.
    c. Affirmer disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons
       that may apply to the Work or any use thereof, including without
       limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work. Further,
       Affirmer disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary consents,
       permissions or other rights required for any use of the Work.
    d. Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a party
       to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to this CC0 or
       use of the Work.

--------------------------------
Disclaimer and Legal Information
--------------------------------
No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any intellectual
property rights is granted by this document.

Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without limitation,
the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and
non-infringement, as well as any warranty arising from course of performance,
course of dealing, or usage in trade.

This document contains information on products, services and/or processes in
development. All information provided here is subject to change without notice.
Contact your Intel representative to obtain the latest forecast, schedule,
specifications and roadmaps.

The products and services described may contain defects or errors known as
errata which may cause deviations from published specifications. Current
characterized errata are available on request.

No computer software can provide absolute security. End users are responsible for
securing their own deployment of computer software in any environment.

Intel, Intel Core, Xeon, Xeon Phi and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel
Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.

* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.

(C) Intel Corporation.

Optimization Notice
-------------------

Intel's compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non-Intel
microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors.
These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other
optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or
effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel.
Microprocessor-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use 
with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel 
microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the 
applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the
specific instruction sets covered by this notice.

Notice revision #20110804
